Welcome to AV testing podcast your modern testing podcast your hosts Alan and Brent will be here to guide you through
Topics on testing leadership agile and anything else that comes to mind now on with the show boom
Whoop there it is that was the sound of 134
episode 134 of the AV testing podcast hitting your podcast player
Because I finally got almost
Almost everyone switched over to the new feed for some reason of course if you're on the old feed
you're not getting any new episodes, but I had like
11 or 15 or some small number of plays still last week from the old feed like they were catching up. I
Like that as a as a model for the model for the podcast a be testing podcast where we almost get it right
Sometimes maybe hey
Perfect is the enemy of good right it it is have you ever heard of the 8080 rule the 8080 rule
No, what is the 8080 rule?
8080 rule is 80% of the
value comes from 80% of the effort the other 80% of the value comes from the remaining
20% of the effort I know you're a math guy
And you're gonna think about that and it's gonna make sense someday
What do you think I'm sticking by the 8080 rule all right?
We're gonna go with that and that is not going to be anything. I call out in the show notes, which uh, so yeah
We are here recording on a Friday afternoon on Friday Friday Friday
Friday
Freddowary the only thing I'm drinking is a tall can of cold brewed coffee
Friday February 19th should be out on Monday
next Wednesday
Do it a webinar?
Yeah
Yeah, and I'm talking about a lot of you remember an article
I posted on blog test project that I owe about a month ago on the developer versus a tester mindset and
How I thought that was crap and we talked about that on a podcast probably 132. I
Think and I'm giving a webinar talking about that. It's a real
Multimedia experience of the article I wrote with more examples
Of course, the audience is all going to be testers and I imagine the audience will all be there with pitchforks
So, you know should be a good time. Yeah in here as a as a as a tease
Alex or Alex that's my son's name Alan
My god, I'm old
Alan is is
Finally going to show support for checking
I'm not even that that was such a poorly baited hook. I'm not even gonna think of biting
People are very subtle. I get direct messages on LinkedIn from folks saying your article is misleading
Because it mentions the word testing when you really mean checking it's can and I am not
Kidding they my latest article I just posted again on blog test project that I owe about
Test automation which is pretty much the written version of our last podcast more or less with some
Better grammar and spelling if you can misspell during a podcast. We would know how to do it
anyway, the title was the title had the word test in it and
They pinged me and said this article is not about testing. It's about test automation
You should call that out and I did a quick little search and I replied back and I said
Did you notice that the article has the word test automation or automated test?
40 does is not a made-up exaggerated podcast name. I counted 40 instances in a 1200 word article
I think it's clear that the article was about test automation and the day I call it check automation
Actually is never the only way that could happen is if I died and someone reanimated me as an evil robot
So anyway, that's my life
So I'm doing the webinar I will handle the pitchforks gracefully and again this goes back to episode one of the A B testing
I'm not dictating
That this is all going to change and neither is Brent
We're here to help people navigate the change the webinar folks are really excited to have me do it
There's good. It was their ideas to do the webinar and they said hey and be a little careful because our audience is testers
And I will be of course, but it's about
Letting just giving them information to help them navigate the change to itty bitty bits of information to share about the podcast
One is the webinar
None of this planned not in my notes
One is that this is test project the test automation project
Or program which I've used in the past. I did some blog posts on it a while back. It's super easy to use
It's it's a nice platform
I have subtly hinted both in my last article and in talking to these folks they should market these tools towards developers and not just testers and
They are that is in their plans. They're gonna start marketing harder to developers. I think it's great
I think tools like cypress and test cafe do already and I think all of the test tool
Vendors in the industry should market a little more heavily
Towards developers in fact, I don't know if I've mentioned I am good friends with the folks at autofie who make yet another
Recorded test automation will make our test not flaky via via ML and AI
Basically just to find out when it works pretty well
It's it makes me much less afraid of UI automation, but they have companies come to them and
Say they want to do. Oh, yeah, we want to do a whole bunch of automation
They go these guys they get it because they're developers
They're trying to market to developers and testers and teams say hold on hold on hold on
No, no, just you you shouldn't do that
You should write a whole bunch of tests that don't need web UI
Verification and just use this for the things that can only be tested using web UI verification
Anyway, we've been on that
Hill before the other thing is test project was acquired a year ago six months ago by a larger company called Tricentis
Not heard of it. Okay. Well, that is if you go look at I think the last James Buck
post to web post from
Roughly a year ago. He was going to work at Tricentis. I don't know if he's still there
He's been pretty quiet and generally he gets quiet when he's busy working
So he could be very much so still working there. I don't know if they'll show up at my
Podcast a heckle, but I actually don't care if he does because I don't think he'll have anything to argue with them what I say
But wanted to mention all that small world small world. Okay one more rant if you don't mind then we can do the topic for
The day. Yeah, or do you actually want to say anything?
Or so I didn't tag you on Twitter, but and we're not video cast haven't done that in a while
Maybe we'll do it again sometime
But I did I did send out an Instagram and a tweet
Insta in a tweet right before we recorded and you guys can't see me but Brent
I can't see his face because he's had his hand over his face the whole time
but he is clean shaven and I in their hand have stopped shaving completely and
I think if all goes well
We kick Brent off of the podcast and the B and AB testing begins to stand for Alan's beard
Let's be me and my beard. I'm practicing why I'm monopolizing the recording time
Yeah, I I think that's a
Potentially a great way to boost listenership
right, I
your beard is
clearly very wise
Clearly clearly makes me look older and smarter. Hey, I have a question for you. Yeah, this is a multiple choice question
You're good at these. We've done this before. All right, here we go
what false assumption should you be aware of when striving for continuous quality a
Quality should be assured by tests conducted by a dedicated team
B quality is primarily a marketing asset and yields few other benefits or
See the more bugs that are found and fixed the better the quality. Oh my god
Is is D none of the above wait say B again
Quality is primarily a marketing asset and yields few other benefits
and then a
Quality should be assured by tests conducted by a dedicated team
Well with I mean all of those options suck, but if I have to pick one I'll pick B
All right. Well, you're your friends at Microsoft who made this little quiz
Said that C is the correct answer that that's a fault that the more bugs that are found and fixed about other the quality is
The false assumption about continuous quality therefore. Oh, therefore the others others must be true
It's a very confusing question. I wanted to highlight that it gets gets the WTF of the day. Yeah
It really is missing a all of the above option
It is exactly right. Hey, so today on the podcast
Did you where's the link to that? Where's the link to that thing? I just have the graphic and it's in
One of the three dot slack comm you can join by going to modern test new or clicking on the link and it's in the Rance
Channel where lots of folks post
It's tough that pisses them off
Okay, well Brent lives at go you guys this come out
You won't you will have to talk to Yost? That's all I can say. That's all I know. I saw it today
It was worth reading you need to do your research ahead of the podcast
I have books all over my table at websites open. I have done my research
I'm also lying
Absolutely, you're lying. I'm like do the research before the podcast
We we don't know the topics until five minutes after the podcast has started one of my favorite
lines ever in comedy is from
John Mulaney I
Won't go it. I won't tell the whole story
Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. I said no
You know like a liar
Okay, some reason that line just I just love it sticks in my head all the time
I lie which I guess is good
Or it means I lie a lot
So anyway topic and if you're gonna you're gonna be eating through the whole podcast or just like during part of the recording
I think in the whole one is that is that I mean there are
Seven days a week all of these like 20
One hour for one hour in two weeks of time
I ask you to not be shoving crap in your face, but no I can't do a man
It's too hard
Further further evidence for for this whole beard program. Hey, so uh, we always we frequently we frequently use
Stuff Alan's doing at work to talk about to delve into topics that are seem relevant for the three
But I want to use talking about what you do at work to talk about what I do at work to benefit the three
Because I don't think well, I think the three probably can describe what I do at least what my responsibilities are pretty well
All they know is Brent sits in a desk and does math
Like what is your role you manage a data science team? Is that correct? Yeah, and is it all top secret stuff?
You can't talk about and that's fine
But what does like what are the outputs of your team who consumes your stuff?
Tell tell tell the three a little bit more
Under the appropriate NDA on what you do
So I have
two key missions
One is
Essentially
We have customers who are in pain. We have customers who have problems and
That that second mission is around
How do we apply?
so my my portion of that mission is the is the application of data science with the goal of
the
match making solutions to problems
as as soon as possible in the user's
journey on the platform
So is there a not is there a fair to share example of that you can share well
So the other thing I was gonna say is so my team is a much further along
on that mission than my second mission and
We actually own and operate
Microservices where that are ml powered that plug into
particular elements of the portal of the Azure portal itself so one one aspect for example if you if you're on Azure and
You go and and create a support ticket
You begin the process to create a support ticket
There's a system that will give you a recommendation as to
What topic you're actually?
should should move forward with the very very first pain in the wizard is sort of
specifying the the topic that sort of
encapsulates the problem space and
That's a that that service is entirely my team
There's there's another one that we operate that
Helps so in the case. I'm actually trying to decide if this is an NDA thing
Yeah, it is
We have another service that when customers have a certain type of problem. We give them we give them a very concrete and
direct
alternative
to them they they there's a specific problem that they could face and
There's there's no way to move forward in their ideal scenario, so we are able to
give them an alternative to what they were doing and
That second one the first one is great because I ran a
essentially a small little team and
That one is the first one is a very tight scenario and
But my team is very proud of it because we are operating at
Microsoft scope and and helping to solve Microsoft level problems
the second one
Is a real customer bummer?
It's it's it's in terms of Azure itself. It's a rather rare event
but in terms
But it does happen daily and
This particular that one has actually helped to
To get customers a faster solution and able to move forward
and
directly reduced
The number of cases the support cases for that particular problem by 40% oh
That's all that that's great. So yeah, most of your stuff it sounds like from you talking about you can correct me if I misinterpreted this but it is
Not customer visible directly, but it's it's stuff that runs in production that actually runs behind the scenes to help other stuff work
It's it's or is it internal that that was unclear to me
So all of the services that we're operating right now and again
It's the two and we have a couple more about to ship
There they're behind highly secured rest API's. Okay, so so yeah, but the
the user visible components
Will directly show the results in a more user
Friendly way, but it is a rest API. I'm not I'm not generating the UI or whatever
API is accessible by customers as well as internal developers
The rest API directly is not we're very tight on on
Controlling who who gets to call it?
All right, so you are and and the reason for my precision questioning is the topic I wanted to get to is talk about
Orgs like test orgs like the org I run like the org you run that
We exist to help other parts of the org be successful. Is that statement? Correct?
Does that high level description of both of our orgs put us in the same part of the Venn diagram if you'd asked me two years ago
That I would have immediately said yes, as you as you know Alan I think
The denocides fad is at the beginning of the end. Mm-hmm. Okay, and
As you also know when it comes to career
chained events
I tend to start I stand to start doing that shift
much sooner than most others
And in the coordinates, this is why I a data science team and operating to production services
So I am I don't know if you would put a development organization as part of that support organization
I guess if it were a tool developer, it's a little different. I'm stretching a little bit
It's a little bit different than what an infrastructure or a site reliability engineering team do in my case
Yeah, a non-trivial portion of my duties are in a supportive role. It's my job to generate insights
That force other people to do things. Okay, so very close
We have teams that aren't in my org that do similar sorts of things for our business as you could imagine
Not not at Microsoft scale. They do it at unity scale
Agreed, let me move on to my original topic. I think there'll be some relevance to what you're doing
But of course you've of course you've run test teams in the past which I think very much fall into this bucket
Your your goal as a test team isn't to find bugs
It isn't to write a bunch of automated tests
It isn't to run code coverage is to accelerate the achievement a shippable quality or accelerate the team's ability to ship or as principle one says
Well cellophane correctly in the background or as principle one says
Business value
business first
right, so I'm curious you've run test teams a lot and you've run orgs like this and of course as
Probably as far back as Xbox one is when I first sort of fell into a role or a
Purely support role where I wasn't testing. You know what?
I realized for all the work I've done in testing. Do you know when the last time that my job was to do testing even?
70% of my day
Windows windows. No, it was Windows
2000 yeah mine was it was in called NT 5 at the time but that was my last time I did full-time testing
Yeah for me was schedule plus
Right with ships with office 95
Right because I went from I see the manager relatively quickly in my career
The
but hindsight
And I don't want to the given in the context
And I've shared this over and over again, right? I've kind of always shied away from
roles
That were were too heavily focused on testing because because quite honestly the process of
testing was
Awful. Well, what happened with me and this is a little off-topic
But I I enjoyed doing the testing but then after a while I
enjoyed
Helping others get better and faster at it. So even I gotta think where I went from there
So I was testing full-time there and then I joined the windows and millennium team
And I did debugger development just because it was hard and fun and worked on debug windows and ended up
I don't think I wrote any tests. I was pretty much full-time
debugging and
Doing some of the kernel dev probably why it sucked so much and after that I
Windows CE I was a test architect there
I helped others get stuff done. I ended up running the tools team there
I owe I managed some testers, but I just let them do their stuff. I mainly worked on tool development
And of course, I went to engineering excellence and taught testing. I that's where I really studied testing
That's where I learned testing as when I had to study it so I could teach it
And then yeah, and then after that it was more test architecti kind of stuff on link and then
Definitely running the internal tools project as I did in Xbox, etc, etc, etc
And these days just running teams that support a larger part of the company or the organization
Yeah hindsight 2020 like and I've said this on the podcast before
Like I was never really into testing right? I was far more interested in
quality and
Yeah, hey, I said, yeah, I want to underscore that's the thing
I think that that will end any argument on testing versus checking or so. I don't give a shit. I care about quality
I don't care like the craft is exciting as long as it leads towards customer quality
Right. And of course, of course
There is the semantic, you know piggybacking off of episode one hundred and three therein lies the semantic
problem
right because
In the camp that's pushing back on your article on the mindset discussion
They don't see a world where quality and testing are anything other than synonyms and
and I
Don't know I used to have a great set of skills around this
Right. I have the one blog post
That actually raised a lot of eyebrows
in and got people to surf source
Basically rethink it where but and then I don't know if you remember but I had a mentor back in the day and I'm like
Hey, why is it?
that
We don't see test people from tests back when we had the functional roles here at Microsoft. We see tests ascending to
To the product unit manager role all that often and his answer was like, oh my god
That's like one of the simplest questions ever
It's it's simply because the cussed the test doesn't understand the customer and back in those days
Thems were fighting words. Yeah. Yeah
We are the customer man with a last line of defense
Right. Exactly. We're the the customer advocate him, right and I go through that story and I sat back to him and
I walked through that story and I and set back and you know
I was getting ready to bit flip him as a mentor. This was actually our first meeting
I won't tell it here
Maybe we put a link into the blog post in the show notes
But what resulted is I of course then had a huge community of peers that were also test managers
And I'm like, you know what? I
Realized this dude's fucking right. I've I've been having my head up my own ass on this for forever
And then I would share the story with the other test manager and I'm like, look, this is my perspective now
And I can't I can't unsee it tell me where I'm wrong, right?
And this is why and I'm gonna go off here because as you all may recall
Regardless of our seventh principle, which says you may not need testers and don't you mean checkers?
No, the most controversial as far as angry feedback
We've had on the principles is the one where we say only the customer knows how to evaluate the quality of our products
Which is absolutely right and I get it the feedback we get when and again, we are not dictating this
This is us and our love and our study of Eric Reese and seeing how it works to actually get feedback and ship incrementally and get feedback
from from people actually using the product
via data
What we see of anyway common down Brent
But the idea is we don't know we just don't know how they use our stuff until we can see them use it or
study how they use it through data and the idea that
test is there to act as the customer and be the customer and the subject matter expert for the feature is
Just a bunch of crap and I can tell you because you and I can both probably think of software that
We tested the shit out of it's very functionally correct and users can't figure out how to use it, right?
because
the problems we're trying to solve is
Spec correctness as our friend Steve called out in his follow-up blog to the put to my post
He's like yeah, we've been spending all over time
Focusing on spec correctness and making sure the spec was implemented to the letter
But right no one's no one's worried about
Does the customer care so I gotta tell you once I wrote I?
Wrote and for Windows 98 some network API tests that not only
Created shares of every allowable length. I'm I use some equivalence classes, but also
every character
That was possible on a win 9x machine
Japanese Korean Chinese, etc, etc, etc
and I ran all those tests I found a couple bugs, but it was a huge huge huge huge suite
It ran forever. It was super reliable because it was API level. It wasn't done through the UI and
Does that mean those network APIs had no bugs? No, I I just ran a lot of tests
I probably had good code coverage, but I in hindsight as dumb
Yeah, there's a lot of things
The other thing too though is I think back. What is that? Hold on. Hold on. Yeah, there's a lot of things
What does that mean? I was trying to shift into an empathetic moment
Where where you and I walked away feel more connected and bonded together. That's not gonna happen
My beard's in the way
I think through like those days and and I don't know about you but I'm
Part of me is actively repressing those days and as a result
I'm forgetting the other constraints right a lot of the things that we did back then
We're due to the fact that we're shipping
We we were shipping very slow. Yeah
I remember
Under a year was considered a fast release
Right. We had no choice. We had no choice. I know I know it's a different world and we need to adapt. Oh
I'm there
Customers get quality
We in support orgs test included. I think you know, what's really fun is I can tell you my team's mission and
You might I might have to pay a copyright tax to accelerate the achievement of shippable quality
No, it's better. So remember for me. I manage all of our infrastructure site reliability engineering
documentation
Quality coaches. Yes. We have quality coaches. Remember we used to measure ratio
Well our ratio of quality coaches and developers is about one to a hundred your mileage may vary those are all on my team
Some other stuff too. I'm sure I'm forgetting but all of the stuff that helps other parts of the company ship services and
Mission to enable enable the success of developers at Unity and delivering high value products our customers love
So we are they we are there to enable success
It's not even enable success, right? Like don't fool you. It should be accelerate success
Right, right. I mean by saying enable success like the thought exercise that you
You can do the word enables there because there's a there's a division or organizational mission statement
Which starts with the navel that I wanted to build on but you're correct
Oh, all right
I'll just say this I'll just finish the thought like if you use the word enable then you you
Right it the implication is that if your organization wasn't there, right? You are correct that success wouldn't happen
And that's probably false
however
Your job because you're there is is to accelerate that success. All right in this world where speed wins
That's the reason to
Get an orb like yours in-house. We want to make it easy fast and safe. Yes
Easier faster safer. I'll work on that
But so but that's very similar to what test did back at the day back before we had CICD
Because you don't need it when you're shipping once every two years
We did a lot of things we did testing of course, we tried the test quality in we played bug ping pong all the time
But also we were doing we were involved in bug triage try and find the right bugs to fix trying to get rid of
We did a lot of other little things and tools and
Diagnostic things to help with that
Yeah, I'm still
You're a damn test harness
Yeah, where you know it up you should have marketed that purely to developers and said testers don't write these here you go
Yeah, that would actually have been smart
Yeah
Architected that got a patent on it. I just
And then I wrote a right the way I deployed it usage actually
Made that code dependency loop. We talked about so often
Way more efficient man. Did we did that tool?
Solidify codependency like anything else I've ever seen the lesson I've learned that helps with my org
One get their job done and scale across the company
But to just job satisfaction is nobody has ever put in a position where
Another team or a person is dependent on them to get their job done
Like everywhere from docs like we have developers are a lot of documentation. Of course, then we can polish it and edit it on the
Deployment side everyone we have the you build that you run it
We just make it easier for you to build it and run it easier built easier faster safer to build it and run it
Yeah, the thing so winding back to the high-level topic and we kind of got there
But the thing like I think in a support organization
And you made a comment hey back in the day test tried to make it easier faster safer I
May be safer like easier and faster
No, we did not know we enjoyed being the bottleneck. It was part of the codependency
We'll get this we have to sign off
Yeah
Remember Boyd Boyd on Xbox once sat me down. We're having a conversation. He told me, you know
Yeah, he's doing is it kind of hippie thing
What is the role of test and I fished around for some answers to accelerate the achievement of quality?
No, that's not it to provide information to stakeholders. No, that's not it. The rule of that one is to sign off
But well, that's a shitty answer Boyd
Yeah
Cool so if I sign off right now
You know get can I just you know drink beer in my office?
I gotta tell you just this week in one of my one-on-ones one of my employees were talking about the org
I can't remember what we were talking about we I
One of the things in just a tangent to the tangent and the one-on-ones there. I still have people who
Want to talk about status what they did and I don't care
Let's talk about let's talk about stuff that makes us think so usually usually I steer away pretty quickly and they kind of get it
I've only once had to say in a one-on-one. I don't want to talk about status
Usually they get it pretty quickly, which is great
but we were talking about what's going on in the org and some strategic sort of stuff and
This is a a person on my team and he said well, basically we're a cost center for the org
Let's not think of it that way. Let's think of us as a business accelerant
well, right and so once you once you realize rephrasing principle one because I think it applies to you a
a
DevOps or infra org just as much as it did test back in the day
We're an accelerant for the org
But one it's important that you you recognize that role like if you're in a support role
In this particular case in your team
It's not all support roles are gonna be an accelerant I think but in your case and in my prior test case
Or test management career case and as we mentioned some degree even today
My job is to accelerate this the achievement of shipable
Quality and once you realize that you're an accelerant and that your whole value proposition is
Acceleration then you can begin going down the path of defining for your organization
What is the work you should be working on in some sort of return on investment?
Oh, yeah, and and the answer the discussion that that we the subsequent conversation
again
faster better quick what I say
faster
Faster
Better faster safer. Jeezus. I'm dumb easier faster safer
I said, well, how long does it take for what's our pipeline time like and I know the answer
It's super fast like our longest one if everything goes wrong is about 40 minutes
But most most most the time emerged to emerge to Maine and it's live within 20 minutes. Okay. Yeah
We can always tweak the bottle neck. He said yeah, we're already fine there. What can we do? So should we speed that up?
I said no, but let me ask you this
When we hire someone brand new person in the org how long until they're fully productive on the team?
Oh, yeah, we could and right now. I don't know what the number is anecdotally. We can ask managers. It is not good
Measured in months. I would say my guess is measured in months
We know anecdotally at least it's we can do better there
So this let's do that. You know, you and I could brainstorm and think of 20 things we could do today
To make that better. Let's start measuring that get that faster
Theory of constraints you have to which and systems thinking go together. You have to look at the system that figure out
Okay, where's our biggest bottleneck? So if you look back like I mean, it's slow. Let's look at the whole process even beyond
The systems is always a system within a system. So
Today I have an open head count. It may take me
some amount of time to get
a job wreck in with recruiting and get that posted and go through resume feedback and interviews
And then get them to quit their old job to start and that there's some time lag there
That's all part of a larger system
So I want to make that faster too
But the first thing we can do is just make the whole on boarding faster
But if you look at the system
You're going to find other things that are slow. What are the things that don't make it?
What are the things that make it more difficult to be?
Easy fast and quick
That's a key thing. That's a key thing for me. Like I'm still focusing on
So I have two phases. The first thing is okay before they even started
How do I reduce ramp up time to near zero?
Yeah
Yeah, that that's number one and my definition of ramp up time is essentially the idle period before they start doing something useful
okay, am
then the second phase is
Is how do I get them to autonomy as quickly as possible?
Autonomously capable would be better. Yeah
I'm sure there are some some
Good survey questions we can ask because our org does sort of an end-set survey twice a year to figure out
How developers are doing but we could shove that in there, but I just thinking a perfect world imagine this
imagine this
Uh, we get our interview process streamlined enough that if we like somebody we can give them an offer at the end of the day
And they are shipping meaningful code
On their first day at work
That's I mean, I like the idea the big hair audacious goal
Just say that's the goal if you fall a little short you're still in pretty good shape, but that's what I want to do
I just decide no, I I want off offers on the days of the day of the interview and I want them shipping meaningful code
on their first day
and and
Like rallying cries are super effective. And if you just say look
Offer by end of day. That's what I want offer by the end of the day
Right, and if you don't set
A clear simple goal like that
obviously
If you never start you're never going to get there
Right. And so that's just setting deep deep. Right? I know
right
It's it's sadly a phrase I use
at least once a week
right, it's because there's a
There's still a lot of push and not push but
a lot of people
uh in the company I work in
uh that are still
You know the big design up front is safer. Yeah. Yeah, it's the way it's it's the way it's always been it's easier
It's what they're comfortable with. Yeah, and i'm just like
So now I actually have a reputation
So i'm out actually allowed
I can do things I couldn't do even just took all the years ago. I'm like, okay
Well, i'm not interested in investing in that then
They're like what i'm gonna give you eight heads. Yeah, you can keep the heads. I don't I don't really care
But but why it it well number one
Uh, the work you want to do is not anything in this decade that is useful to build a career
like
You're asking me. I mean higher vendors
Is going to be my answer to that particular thing. Yeah. Yeah, um
the
the other one is um
Where's the roi? I I
I just don't
i'm not seeing
Given i'm not seeing any path to sort of a uh, a guaranteed roi
And me as a data scientist now, which is just great because I have access to all sorts of data
That says no matter. It does not matter how much big design and how much up front you do
There is a huge degree of uncertainty
In almost every scenario that i've talked talked through with folks recently
that
By the time even if it was a three-month project by the time that rolled out
Still a degree of of so many variables that you can't even know
That it's going to fubar the whole thing
Oh that reminds me of the topic I wanted to pick for today
Which was and I have another another tangent on top of that but
the topic was
shipping like something we're struggling with avoiding the what's alan doing at work is
Helping teams figure out how to take a huge complex prog project
And ship it incrementally
Yeah, yeah. Well, and so now i'm at a point where
uh
And we were just for ourselves because you and I know how to do that
It just it's right. It's so the one thing is the coaching and teaching of that to get people to get that
Which is the challenge, of course
In terms of me right now like the people who come and engage with me
I have my team has built up such a positive relationship. I can skip over that
I'm like look. Yeah, i'm not having that discussion
A I have so much work to do i'm going to prioritize the folks
that are
Willing to join this particular party
Now if it is something that I can clearly see a bunch of opportunity
uh, and
That will that will attract me first and if I can clearly see a bunch of opportunity then they engage me with this
Then I just take over and I say no look here's the thing. That's not what we're going to do
What we're going to do
Is we're going to do this incrementally?
And after we're going to break this down into smaller releases that can be done in in a in a two-week cycle
And we're going to have a moment after those releases to judge the success and repivot
I'm not spending three months with you to go through and come up with a perfect design
I'm telling you
I've tried to do this before and it's a waste of my team's time. Well, one of the things we've talked about in the way
I run our programs in our org is the p50 estimate so that it gets rid of big design up front
But it also gets rid of
Running off like a like a scared panda in the wrong direction
Or the or the ready fire aim
We could just say no estimates, but let's give a
Vague estimate based on a probability. It's not vague
It's an estimate based on a probability and if you're wrong you'll discuss why in the retro and you'll get better
And most teams get pretty good at this over time, but the p50 estimate keeps people from
uh trying to over plan in fact
We have it's a long story for
Uh a few minutes for the podcast is ending but
We have a very efficient way of keeping track of when projects are in planning too long
And encouraging people not to over plan but to plan enough where they have 50 confidence in the date
They choose and that's it and it works out
very well
Across the org we shipped like 400 we released 400 customer impacting 450 something like that
Customer impacting projects last year some were late some were early a lot were on time
But we made progress and and that that p50 estimate is a sweet spot for velocity
Yeah, and you know, I was thinking through back in the day
When I was engaging with pms
Uh
That came from the more waterfall model and they were working with me and they would come to me and say, okay
So what's your commit date for this?
I was doing a pure kanban and as you know in a pure kanban
That's a question that doesn't make sense
And I tried feebly to say sorry, that's not how we execute
But in some regards
And I got feedback on this p50 estimate saying, you know, I don't believe in estimates
Don't give it just just work and things will work out like I my business says I got to give dates
I work too closely with product managers and marketing people and they have to have an idea an idea and they get p50
They know there can be changes but an idea when things are going to be complete
Right because other there there are downstream dependencies of course
And what they're trying to do is is get those recent because it's a big system and
Your team's system is an important system, but it's actually part of a larger system
Yeah
Unless you were able to do like I could when I started off unless you're able to own the sort of whole slice end-to-end
um
You you need to you need to give a
a set of dates
Because you have downstream dependencies
And it's expensive to have them sitting waiting around being idle
Right. It's it's much makes much more business sense than just simply
Oh, they're making me commit to a date. So I cut corners or any other thing like that
No, that's how it feels but that's not what is happening. Absolutely. Absolutely. So I feel like uh, we
had a weaving river
Of stream of thought that took us to this point and yet I still feel like we hit a few good points
That may be irrelevant to some of our listeners. So next time I will talk about exploratory test automation
Maybe awesome looking or whatever questions come in. You can always ask questions
Um one of the three dot slack calm also a quick plug
If you'd like to spend a half hour with me on a zoom call and have yourself recorded
I haven't done an abt 343 in a long time. I'd love to have yawn
If you just have a huge topic to share or something to discuss
Uh, we're happy to have some people on the big podcast as well. Let us know for a small fee. Just kidding
But especially some of the long time listeners be great to have yawn
As we wind our way towards episode 200
I may not live that long. All right, everybody. I am
Alan and Alan's beard and that's the ab testing podcast
Why are you still listening? No, it's over. It's over. Goodbye. Goodbye